.\" '\"This information is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" '\"under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as
.\" '\"published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\" '\"
.\" '\"This program is distributed in the hope that it would be useful, but
.\" '\"WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" '\"MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" '\"
.\" '\"Further, this software is distributed without any warranty that it is
.\" '\"free of the rightful claim of any third person regarding infringement 
.\" '\"or the like.  Any license provided herein, whether implied or 
.\" '\"otherwise, applies only to this software file.  Patent licenses, if 
.\" '\"any, provided herein do not apply to combinations of this program with 
.\" '\"other software, or any other product whatsoever.  
.\" '\"
.\" '\"You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" '\"with this program; if not, write the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
.\" '\"Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\" '\"
.\" '\"Contact information:  PathScale, LLC., 2071 Stierlin Court, Suite 200,
.\" '\"Mountain View CA 94043, USA, or:
.\" '\"
.\" '\"http://www.pathscale.com
.\" '\"
.\" '\"For further information regarding this notice, see:
.\" '\"
.\" '\"http://oss.sgi.com/projects/GenInfo/NoticeExplan
.\" '\"
.TH "explain" "1" "" "PathScale, LLC." "PathScale Compiler Suite"
.SH "NAME"
\fBexplain\fR
\- PathScale Fortran compiler and runtime error message explanation utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBexplain\fR
\%\fImessage_id\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBexplain\fR utility displays a detailed explanation for an error
message printed by the PathScale(TM) Fortran compiler or runtime
library.
.PP
When the Fortran compiler or runtime prints an error message, it
prefixes the message with a string in the format
"\fIsubsystem\fR-\fInumber\fR", e.g. "\fIpathf95-724\fR".  This is the
\fImessage_id\fR string that you must provide to the \fBexplain\fR
utility.
.PP
The currently supported values for \fIsubsystem\fR are as follows:
.TP
\fBarith\fR
Arithmetic components of the PathScale Fortran compiler front-end.
.TP
\fBlib\fR
Fortran runtime library.
.TP
\fBpathf95\fR
PathScale Fortran compiler front-end.
.PP
A value such as "4056" returned by
the "iostat=" specifier in a Fortran I/O statement can also be decoded using
"\fBlib\fR", as in "explain lib-4056."
.PP
The \fBexplain\fR utility uses the \fBPAGER\fR environment variable to
choose the program that will display its output.  It invokes it with
the "\fI-s\fR" flag, to compress multiple newlines into one.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
\fBPAGER\fR
The program that should display an error message explanation.
.PP
For information on compiler environment variables, see 
the \fBeko\fR(7) man page.
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2007 PathScale, LLC.  All Rights Reserved.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 QLogic Corp.  All Rights Reserved.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 PathScale, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpathf95\fR(1)
.PP
PathScale Compiler Suite User Guide
.PP
Online documentation available at http://www.pathscale.com/docs.html
