.\" '\" Copyright (C) 2007 PathScale, LLC.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" '\"
.\" '\"This information is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" '\"under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as
.\" '\"published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\" '\"
.\" '\"This program is distributed in the hope that it would be useful, but
.\" '\"WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" '\"MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  
.\" '\"
.\" '\"Further, this software is distributed without any warranty that it is
.\" '\"free of the rightful claim of any third person regarding infringement 
.\" '\"or the like.  Any license provided herein, whether implied or 
.\" '\"otherwise, applies only to this software file.  Patent licenses, if 
.\" '\"any, provided herein do not apply to combinations of this program with 
.\" '\"other software, or any other product whatsoever.  
.\" '\"
.\" '\"You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" '\"with this program; if not, write the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59
.\" '\"Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\" '\"
.\" '\"Contact information:  PathScale, LLC., 2071 Stierlin Court, Suite 200,
.\" '\"Mountain View CA 94043, USA, or:
.\" '\"
.\" '\"http://www.pathscale.com
.\" '\"
.\" '\"For further information regarding this notice, see:
.\" '\"
.\" '\"http://oss.sgi.com/projects/GenInfo/NoticeExplan
.\" '\"
.TH "pathhow-compiled" "1" "" "PathScale, LLC." "PathScale Compiler Suite"
.SH "NAME"
\fBpathhow-compiled\fR
\- PathScale display compiled options utility
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpathhow-compiled\fR
\%\fI<filename> [<filename>] ...\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpathhow-compiled\fR utility displays the compilation options
and compiler version currently being used.
.PP
When a .o file, archive, or an executable is passed to pathhow-compiled, it will
display the compilation options for each .o file constituting the argument file. This
includes any linked archives.
.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
Compile the file myfile.c with pathcc and then use the pathhow-compiled tool:
.nf
$ pathcc myfile.c -o myfile
.fi
$ pathhow-compiled myfile
.TP
The output would look something like this:
PathScale Compiler Version 3.0 compiled myfile.c with options:
.nf
    -O2 -march=opteron -msse2 -mno-sse3 -mno-3dnow -m64
.fi
