.\" '\" Copyright (C) 2007 PathScale, LLC.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" '\"
.\" '\" Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 QLogic Corp.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" '\"
.\" '\" Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 PathScale, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" '\" This is not free software.
.\" '\" Redistribution or modification is prohibited without the prior
.\" '\" express written permission of PathScale, Inc.
.\" '\"
.\" .ad 7
.TH "pathscale_intro" "7" "" "PathScale, LLC." "PathScale Compiler Suite"
.SH "NAME"
\fBpathscale_intro\fR - Introductory page for the PathScale Compiler Suite
.PP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This man page describes the resources available for use with the
PathScale C, C++, and Fortran compilers.
.PP
.SH "MAN PAGES"
.PP
The following man pages are available for use with the PathScale
Compiler Suite.  They are intended for use as complete references; for
guides describing how to use the compilers or tools, see the following
section.
.TP
Compiler man pages:
.TP
\fBpathcc\fR(1)
The flags available for use with the PathScale C compiler, which
is named \fBpathcc\fR.
.TP
\fBpathCC\fR(1)
The flags available for use with the PathScale C++ compiler, which
is named \fBpathCC\fR.
.TP
\fBpathf95\fR(1)
The flags available for use with the PathScale Fortran
compiler, which is named \fBpathf95\fR.  This compiler is also
available under the name \fBpathf90\fR, for backwards compatibility.
.PP
Utility man pages:
.TP
\fBassign\fR(1)
Utility to change or display the I/O processing directives for a
Fortran unit or file.
.TP
\fBexplain\fR(1)
Utility that displays detailed explanations of error messages from the
PathScale Fortran compiler and runtime library.
.TP
\fBfsymlist\fR(1)
Utility to print out the list of Fortran symbols found in the
libraries passed to the compiler on the command line; one symbol per
line.
.TP
\fBpathcov\fR(1)
Code coverage testing tool.  This is the version of GNU \fBgcov\fR(1) that
is supported for use with the PathScale compilers.  Other versions
of \fBgcov\fR, including those installed by default with your Linux
distribution, may not work correctly when run on code generated by the
PathScale compilers.
.TP
\fBpathdb\fR(1)
The PathScale debugger. This debugger supports a subset of \fBGDB\fR
commands, provides superior Fortran debugging support, C and C++
support, multiple process support, and support for debugging the
Standard Template Libraries.
.TP
\fBpathprof\fR(1)
Call graph profiling display tool.  This is the version of GNU
\fBgprof\fR(1) that is supported for use with the PathScale compilers.
Other versions of \fBgprof\fR, including those installed by default
with your Linux distribution, may not work correctly when run on code
generated by the PathScale compilers.
.TP
\fBpathopt2\fR(1)
Optimal flags and options for specific codes. The pathopt2 tool will
run the supplied command using a set of options in a supplied
configuration file to find the best set of flags and options for a
particular code.
.PP
Flags and options for all PathScale compilers:
.TP 
\fBcompiler.defaults\fR(5)
Default options to be used by all compilers.
.TP 
\fBeko\fR(7)
All supported flags, including feedback, code generation, and
optimization.
.PP
.SH "ONLINE DOCUMENTS"
.PP
The following online documents provide guides for installing, using,
and receiving support for the PathScale compilers.  They are
provided in Adobe Acrobat format; you can read them with a tool such
as \fBevince\fR(1), \fBxpdf\fR(1), \fBacroread\fR or \fBgv\fR(1).
.TP
\fBThe PathScale Compiler Suite and Subscription Manager Install Guide\fR
How to install and configure the PathScale Compiler Suite.  This
file is named \fBInstall.pdf\fR.
.TP
\fBThe PathScale Compiler Suite User Guide\fR
How to use the compilers, tune your code, and troubleshoot problems.
This file is named \fBUserGuide.pdf\fR.
.TP
\fBThe PathScale Compiler Suite Support Guide\fR
How to get support from PathScale, Inc.; how to file a bug.  This file
is named \fBSupport.pdf\fR.
.TP
\fBThe PathScale Debugger User Guide\fR
How to install and use the PathScale debugger \fBpathdb\fR. Contains
command list and sample debugging session. This file is named
\fBPathDB_UserGuide.pdf\fR.
.PP
After installation, you can find these documents in
\fI<install_dir>\fB/share/doc/pathscale-compilers-\fI<version>\fR.
.PP
.SH "SUPPORT"
.PP
Visit \fBhttp://www.pathscale.com/support.html\fR for more information about
releases and additional support from PathScale.
.PP
.SH "TOOLS AND UTILITIES"
.PP
You can use \fBpathprof\fR to profile programs built with the
PathScale Compiler Suite, and \fBpathcov\fR to test code
coverage. See the PathScale Compiler Suite User Guide for more details.
.PP
.SH "DIRECTORY STRUCTURE"
.PP
After you have installed your PathScale Compiler Suite, your
directory structure will look like this:
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/bin\fR
Compiler binaries.
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/etc\fR
Configuration files for the compilers and related tools.
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/lib/\fI<version>\fR
Compiler phases and 64-bit static and runtime libraries.
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/lib/\fI<version>\fB/32\fR
32-bit static and runtime libraries.
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/compat-gcc/bin\fR
GCC compatibility wrapper scripts.
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/man\fR
Man pages.
.TP
\fI<install_dir>\fB/share/doc/pathscale-compilers-\fI<version>\fR
Documentation and SPEC CPU2000 benchmark configuration files.
.PP
The default installation directory is \fB/opt/pathscale\fR.
.PP
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (C) 2007 PathScale, LLC.  All Rights Reserved.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 QLogic Corp.  All Rights Reserved.
.PP
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 PathScale, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBpathcc\fR(1), \fBpathCC\fR(1), \fBpathf95\fR(1), \fBeko\fR(7),
\fBcompiler.defaults\fR(5), \fBpathopt2\fR(1), 
\fBassign\fR(1), \fBexplain\fR(1), \fBfsymlist\fR(1),
\fBpathcov\fR(1), \fBpathprof\fR(1), \fBpathdb\fR(1)
.PP
PathScale Compiler Suite and Subscription Manager Install Guide
.PP
PathScale Compiler Suite User Guide
.PP
PathScale Compiler Suite Support Guide
.PP
PathScale Debugger User Guide
.PP
Online documentation available at http://www.pathscale.com/docs.html
